doc: add doc for osm-to-railjson (#344)
DGEXSolutions/osrd-website: content/docs/reference/design-docs/osm-to-railjson/index.en.md

---
title: "OSM to railjson"

> linkTitle: "OSM to railjson"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "osm-to-railjson"
linkTitle: "osm-to-railjson"
```

weight: 10

> description: Generating infrastructure with OSM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Generating an infrastructure with OpenStreetMap
```

---

## **Summary**

- [Graph](#graph)
- [Tracks sections](#tracks-sections)
- [Switches and buffer stops](#switches-and-buffer-stops)
- [Speed sections](#speed-sections)
- [Electrifications](#electrifications)
- [Operational points](#operational-points)
- [Signals](#signals)
- [Detectors](#detectors)
- [Routes](#routes)

### **Graph**

> We use [osm4routing](https://github.com/rust-transit/osm4routing2) to create a graph from the OSM nodes and ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a graph from the OSM nodes and ways, [osm4routing](https://github.com/rust-transit/osm4routing2) is used.
```

### **Tracks sections**

Create a *track section* per edge.

### **Switches and buffer stops**

We use the graph topology to deduce the *switches* and the *buffer stops*.
For example, if a node has only one edge, it must be a *buffer stop*.
But if it has 4 edges, it must be either a *cross switch* or a *double slip switch*.

> Now to decide between the last two (and in other cases as well), we need to know which edges are connected to one another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decide between the last two cases (and in other cases as well), the information of which edges are connected to one another is required.
```

> We call this connection a branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This connection is called a branch.
```

> For that we use the angle between the edges: if two edges have an angle less then 30°, they are considered linked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The angle between two edges allows to determine if two edges are linked. If two edges have an angle less then 30°, they are considered linked.
```

> So with our example with 4 edges, if there is 2 branches, it's a *cross switch*, but if there is 4, it's a *double slip switch*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous example with 4 edges, if there is 2 branches, it's a *cross switch*, but if there is 4 branches, it's a *double slip switch*.
```

> This method may result in false positive branching when 2 *track sections* have a small angle but are not linked in real life.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method may result in false positive branching when 2 *track sections* have a small angle but are not actually linked.
```

### **Speed sections**

Create one *speed section* or more by reading the `maxspeed`, `maxspeed:forward` and `maxspeed:backward` tags on each edge.

### **Electrifications**

Create an *electrification* section by reading the `voltage` tag on each edge.

### **Operational points**

> For each relation with the tag `public_transport=stop_area`, we iterate over its node members with the role `stop`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each relation with the tag `public_transport=stop_area`, iterate over its node members with the role `stop`.
```

They will form the parts of the *operational points*.

> Then we retreive the *main_code*, *name* and *uic* from the `railway:ref`, `name` and `uic_ref` tags respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then retreive the *main_code*, *name* and *uic* from the `railway:ref`, `name` and `uic_ref` tags respectively.
```

> We generate the *name*, *uic* and *local_track_name* if they are missing from OSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The properties *name*, *uic* and *local_track_name* are generated if they are missing from OSM.
```

### **Signals**

> Here we have to possibilities: extraction from OSM or generation from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two different ways: extraction from OSM or generation from scratch.
```

#### Extraction

Create a *signal* for each OSM node with either the tag `railway:signal:main` or `railway:signal:combined`.

#### Generation

> We generate multiple type of signal:

Reviewer: Different types of signals can be generated:

- **Intersection**: *signals* protecting intersections
- **BAL**: block signaling using BAL (Block Automatique Lumineux, French equivalent of Automatic block signaling)
- **TVM**: block signaling using TVM (Transmission Voie-Machine, French for Track-to-Train Transmission)

> Here are the rules we use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The business rules used for that are:
```

- For **intersections**:
  - Two *switches* are considered to be part of the same **intersection** if they are at a distance less than 500 meters.
  - *Signals* are placed on each *track section* leading to the **intersection**, 100 meters ahead of the *switch*.
- For **blocks**:

>   - To determine the lenght of each **block**, we use this [formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Braking_distance#Total_stopping_distance):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To determine the lenght of each **block**, this [formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Braking_distance#Total_stopping_distance) is used:
```

    ```
    (v² / 2 * a + rt * v) * m
    ```
    With:
    - `v` => the *speed limit* of the *track sections*.
    - `a` => the *deceleration* of the rolling stock (we use the [open rolling stocks](/en/docs/explanation/models/realistic-rolling-stocks/) data).
    - `rt` => the *reaction time* of the driver, 5 seconds in our case.

>     - `m` => a *safety margin*, +20% in our case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `a` => the *deceleration* of the rolling stock ([realistic rolling stocks](/en/docs/explanation/models/realistic-rolling-stocks/) from open data are used).
    - `rt` => the *reaction time* of the driver (5 seconds).
    - `m` => a *safety margin* (+20%)
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Due to an error in the route generations, each signal is forced to have it's sibling in the opposite direction.
Meaning that all tracks are two-way.
{{% /alert %}}

### **Detectors**

> Here we just create one detector for each signal, located at exactly the same place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One detector is created for each signal, located at exactly the same place.
```

### **Routes**

Here are the differents step for the route generation:

- Build a graph using *buffer stops*, *switches* and one *signal* per direction per *track section* as node.

> - Generate the routes by listing every possible edges in the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The route generation is acheived in two steps. First, build a graph using *buffer stops*, *switches* and one *signal* per direction per *track section* as node, then, generate the routes by listing every possible edges in the graph.
```

---
title: "osm-to-railjson"
linkTitle: "osm-to-railjson"
weight: 10

> description: Generating an infrastructure with OpenStreetMap

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Generating an infrastructure from OpenStreetMap data
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

---

> ## **Summary**

Reviewer 2: add link to where osm-to-railjson is located in the codebase?

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

For example, if a node has only one edge, it must be a *buffer stop*.
But if it has 4 edges, it must be either a *cross switch* or a *double slip switch*.

To decide between the last two cases (and in other cases as well), the information of which edges are connected to one another is required.
This connection is called a branch.
The angle between two edges allows to determine if two edges are linked. If two edges have an angle less then 30°, they are considered linked.
In the previous example with 4 edges, if there is 2 branches, it's a *cross switch*, but if there is 4 branches, it's a *double slip switch*.
This method may result in false positive branching when 2 *track sections* have a small angle but are not actually linked.

### **Speed sections**

Create one *speed section* or more by reading the `maxspeed`, `maxspeed:forward` and `maxspeed:backward` tags on each edge.

### **Electrifications**

Create an *electrification* section by reading the `voltage` tag on each edge.

### **Operational points**

For each relation with the tag `public_transport=stop_area`, iterate over its node members with the role `stop`.
They will form the parts of the *operational points*.

> Then retreive the *main_code*, *name* and *uic* from the `railway:ref`, `name` and `uic_ref` tags respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then retrieve the *main_code*, *name* and *uic* from the `railway:ref`, `name` and `uic_ref` tags respectively.
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

The properties *name*, *uic* and *local_track_name* are generated if they are missing from OSM.

### **Signals**

There are two different ways: extraction from OSM or generation from scratch.

#### Extraction

Create a *signal* for each OSM node with either the tag `railway:signal:main` or `railway:signal:combined`.

#### Generation

Different types of signals can be generated:

- **Intersection**: *signals* protecting intersections

> - **BAL**: block signaling using BAL (Block Automatique Lumineux, French equivalent of Automatic block signaling)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **BAL**: block signalling using BAL ([Block Automatique Lumineux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_block_signaling))
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

> - **TVM**: block signaling using TVM (Transmission Voie-Machine, French for Track-to-Train Transmission)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **TVM**: block signalling using TVM ([Transmission Voie-Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_voie-machine))
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

> The business rules used for that are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rules used for generation are:
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

- For **intersections**:

>   - Two *switches* are considered to be part of the same **intersection** if they are at a distance less than 500 meters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Two *switches* are considered to be part of the same **intersection** if they are at a distance of less than 500 meters.
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

>   - Two *switches* are considered to be part of the same **intersection** if they are at a distance less than 500 meters.

Reviewer 2: Two or more?

Author: `Any *switches* less than 500 meters apart are considered to be part of the same **intersection**.` ?

  - *Signals* are placed on each *track section* leading to the **intersection**, 100 meters ahead of the *switch*.
- For **blocks**:

>   - To determine the lenght of each **block**, this [formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Braking_distance#Total_stopping_distance) is used:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - To determine the length of each **block**, this [formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Braking_distance#Total_stopping_distance) is used:
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

    ```
    (v² / 2 * a + rt * v) * m
    ```
    With:
    - `v` => the *speed limit* of the *track sections*.
    - `a` => the *deceleration* of the rolling stock ([realistic rolling stocks](/en/docs/explanation/models/realistic-rolling-stocks/) from open data are used).
    - `rt` => the *reaction time* of the driver (5 seconds).
    - `m` => a *safety margin* (+20%)

{{% alert color="warning" %}}

> Due to an error in the route generations, each signal is forced to have it's sibling in the opposite direction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to an error in the route generations, each signal is forced to have its sibling in the opposite direction. 
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

> Meaning that all tracks are two-way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Meaning that all tracks are two-way. We are currently working to fix this bug.
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

{{% /alert %}}

### **Detectors**

One detector is created for each signal, located at exactly the same place.

### **Routes**

> The route generation is acheived in two steps. First, build a graph using *buffer stops*, *switches* and one *signal* per direction per *track section* as node, then, generate the routes by listing every possible edges in the graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The route generation is achieved in two steps. First, build a graph using *buffer stops*, *switches* and one *signal* per direction per *track section* as node, then, generate the routes by listing every possible edges in the graph.
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

> The route generation is acheived in two steps. First, build a graph using *buffer stops*, *switches* and one *signal* per direction per *track section* as node, then, generate the routes by listing every possible edges in the graph.

Reviewer 2: this part can be clarified I think

Author: I didn't touch this code much, I'm not sure I can do better than that (I will try)

Author: 4a07a2604873456cf6700f655cb699ef58dfabc9

Author: 4a07a2604873456cf6700f655cb699ef58dfabc9
